                           Average Directional Index

   The ADX, developed by Welles Wilder, measures the strength of a prevailing
   trend, and determines whether there is a movement or direction in the
   market. A strong trend is indicated by a rising ADX, whereas a
   non-trending market is marked by a falling ADX. Note that the ADX does not
   suggest whether a trend is up or down.



   The ADX can be employed to determine sideways (non-trending) markets,
   which offer less capital than trending markets, to filter out trades
   during a market's non-trending period, and to indicate the beginning of an
   upswing in movement.



   Investors also employ the ADX to confirm the signals from other indicators
   or filter out indicators that they might use to analyze either trending or
   non-trending markets.



   The ADX considers every possible configuration that could occur between
   two days of trading relative to the Directional Movement Index. The
   largest part of today's high or low that is outside of yesterday's high or
   low range is calculated. If the largest part of today's range is above
   yesterday's, then the value is marked as PDI, while the largest part of
   today's range below yesterday's yields a value denoted as MDI. The range
   increment is today's True Range. The Directional Movement is divided by
   the True Range in order to make directional movement relative to true
   range.



   Pane: Bottom



   Formula



   Calculating the ADI involves two steps. First of all, the difference of
   PDI and MDI is divided by the sum of PDI and MDI, and the quotient is
   multiplied by 100. The term for the result is symbolized as DX. Next, the
   ADI is calculated by taking the modified Moving Average of DX.



   DX = 100 * ((PDI - MDI) / (PDI + MDI))



   ADI = modified Moving Average of DX

   PDI = Current Plus Directional Movement

   DX = Current DX

   MDI = Current Minus Directional Movement



   Properties



   High: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "High".



   Low: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "Low".



   Close: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "Close".



   Period. The number of bars in a chart. If the chart displays daily data,
   then period denotes days; in weekly charts, the period will stand for
   weeks, and so on. Workstation uses a default period of 14 for the Average
   Directional Index. Note that if you are simultaneously using the
   Directional Movement Index, you may set both period parameters at
   identical levels.



   Interpretation



   An ADX line usually ranges from below 20 to above 40. A line that has
   fallen below 20 suggests a non-trending market with low volatility, while
   a line that suddenly breaks out above 20 may suggest the beginning of an
   important trend. When an ADX line is well above 40 and begins to fall, it
   usually indicates a trend that is slowing down.



   Literature



     o Wilder, J. Welles. New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems.
       Greensboro, NC: Trend Research, 1978.

     o Murphy, John J. The Visual Investor. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons,
       Inc. 1996.
