                           Directional Movement Index

   The concept of Directional Movement is based on the assumption that in an
   upward trend today's highest price is higher than yesterday's highest
   price, and in a downward trend today's lowest price is lower than
   yesterday's lowest price. If this is the case, it is a matter of the
   so-called Outside Days. The difference between today's high and
   yesterday's high corresponds to the Plus Directional Movement (+DI). The
   difference between today's low and yesterday's low is the Minus
   Directional Movement (-DI). These Outside Days consist of a +DI as well as
   an -DI.



   Days in which yesterday's highest price or yesterday's lowest price are
   not exceeded are described as Inside Days and contain a +DI and a -DI, or
   zero. Do not let the plus or minus sign designation mislead you. They only
   indicate upward or downward movement, not values. The directional movement
   value is always a positive number of absolute value, regardless of upward
   or downward movement. In the Directional Movement calculation, Inside Days
   are consequently not taken into account. It is possible for the
   directional movement to be zero. This occurs when the current trading
   range is inside the previous trading range, or when the trading ranges,
   current versus previous, are equal.



   To calculate the Directional Indicators (+DI and -DI), further calculation
   of the True Range is necessary. The true range is always positive and is
   defined as the current highest value of the difference among today's
   highest price minus today's lowest price; today's highest price minus
   yesterday's closing price; and today's lowest price minus yesterday's
   closing price. Wilder used a constant value of 14 on daily data. His logic
   for using this value is that it represented an average half-cycle period.
   When this task is accomplished for the specified interval, you compute the
   average value of PDI, MDI, and TRUE_RANGE.



   The Plus Directional Movement is now calculated. The sum of the +DI over
   the observation period is divided by the sum of the True Range over the
   same period. The calculation of the -DI is analogous. The Directional
   Movement Index (DI) is calculated by dividing the difference between the
   +DI and -DI by the sum of both figures. The result is a percentage, with
   which the extent and/or intensity or the trend is quantified. By smoothing
   this DI, an Average Directional Index (ADX) results.



   Pane: Bottom



   Properties



   High: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "High".



   Low: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "Low".



   Close: The Symbol field on which the study will be calculated. The
   application uses the Aspect "Close".



   Period: The number of bars in a chart. If the chart displays daily data,
   then period denotes days; in weekly charts, the period will stand for
   weeks, and so on. The application uses a default of 14.



   Interpretation



   The DI, Directional Movement Index, is a trend following system. The
   Average Directional Index, or ADX, determines the market trend. When used
   with the up and down directional study values, +DI and -DI, the DI is an
   exact trading system.



   The rules for using the DI are simple. You establish a long position
   whenever the +DI crosses above the -DI. You reverse that position,
   liquidate the long position and establish a short position, when the -DI
   crosses above the +DI.



   In addition to the crossover rules, you must also follow the extreme point
   rule. When a crossover occurs, use the extreme price as the reverse point.
   For a short position, use the high made during the trading interval of the
   crossover. Conversely, reverse a long position using the low made during
   the trading interval of the crossover.



   You maintain the reverse point, the high or low, as your market entry or
   exit price, even if the +DI and the -DI remain crossed for several trading
   intervals. This is supposed to keep you from getting whipsawed in the
   market.



   For some traders, the most significant use of the ADX is the turning point
   concept. First, the ADX must be above both DI lines. When the ADX turns
   lower, the market often reverses the current trend. The ADX serves as a
   warning for a market about to change direction. The main exception to this
   rule is a strong bull market during a blow-off stage. The ADX turns lower
   only to turn higher a few days later.



   According to the developer of the DI, you should stop using any
   trend-following system when the ADX is below both DI lines. The market is
   in a choppy sidewise range with no discernible trend.



   Literature



     o Wilder, J. Welles. New Concepts in Technical Trading Systems.
       Greensboro, NC: Trend Research, 1978.

     o Babcock, Bruce. The Dow Jones - Irwing Guide to Trading Systems. 1989.

     o Colby, Robert F., Myers, Thomas. A. The Encyclopedia of Technical
       Market Indicators. Dow Jones - Irwin. Homewood, IL. 1988.

     o Le Beau C., Lucas D. W. Computer Analysis of the Futures Market. 1992.

     o Murphy, John J. The Visual Investor. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons,
       Inc. 1996.

     o Kaufman, Perry J. The Commodity Trading Systems & Methods. NY: John
       Wiley & Sons, Inc. 1978.

     o Jobman, Darrel R. The Handbook of Technical Analysis. Irwin
       Professional Publishing. 1995.
